extensions/amp-ad/amp-ad.md, before:

# <a name="amp-ad"></a> `amp-ad` / `amp-embed`

[TOC]

{% call callout('Note', type='note') %}
The specification of `amp-ad` / `amp-embed` is likely to significantly evolve over time. The current approach is designed to bootstrap the format to be able to show ads.
{% endcall %}

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<table>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>A container to display an ad. The <code>amp-embed</code> is an alias to the <code>amp-ad</code> tag, deriving all of its functionality with a different tag name. Use <code>amp-embed</code> when semantically more accurate. AMP documents only support ads/embeds served via HTTPS.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-ad" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-ad-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code><br>Note: amp-ad may still work without this script, but we highly recommend it for future compatibility</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>fill, fixed, fixed-height, flex-item, nodisplay, responsive</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong>Examples</strong></td>
    <td>See AMP By Example's <a href="https://ampbyexample.com/components/amp-ad/">amp-ad example</a>.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Behavior

Ads are loaded like all other resources in AMP documents, with a special
custom element called `<amp-ad>`. No ad network-provided JavaScript is allowed to run inside the AMP document. Instead, the AMP runtime loads an iframe from a
different origin (via iframe sandbox) as the AMP document and executes the ad
network’s JS inside that iframe sandbox.

The `<amp-ad>` requires width and height values to be specified according to the [rule](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-html-layout.md#tldr-summary-of-layout-requirements--behaviors) of its layout type. It requires a `type` argument that select what ad network is displayed. All `data-*` attributes on the tag are automatically passed as arguments to the code that eventually renders the ad. What `data-` attributes are required for a given type of network depends and must be documented with the ad network.

#### Example: Displaying a few ads
<!--embedded example - displays in ampproject.org -->
<div>
<amp-iframe height="522"
            layout="fixed-height"
            sandbox="allow-scripts allow-forms allow-same-origin"
            resizable
            src="https://ampproject-b5f4c.firebaseapp.com/examples/ampad.basic.embed.html">
  <div overflow tabindex="0" role="button" aria-label="Show more">Show full code</div>
  <div placeholder></div>
</amp-iframe>
</div>

## Attributes

##### type (required)

Specifies an identifier for the [ad network](#supported-ad-networks). The `type`attribute selects the template to use for the ad tag.

##### src (optional)

Use this attribute to load a script tag for the specified ad network. This can be used for ad networks that require exactly a single script tag to be inserted in the page. The `src` value must have a prefix that is white-listed for the specified ad network, and the value must use `https` protocol.

##### data-foo-bar

Most ad networks require further configuration, which can be passed to the network by using HTML `data-` attributes. The parameter names are subject to standard data attribute dash to camel case conversion. For example, "data-foo-bar" is send to the ad for configuration as "fooBar".  See the documentation for the [ad network](#supported-ad-networks) on which attributes can be used.

##### json (optional)

Use this attribute to pass a configuration to the ad as an arbitrarily complex JSON object. The object is passed to the ad as-is with no mangling done on the names.

##### data-consent-notification-id (optional)

If provided, requires confirming the [amp-user-notification](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/components/amp-user-notification.html) with the given HTML-id until the "AMP client id" for the user (similar to a cookie) is passed to the ad. This means that ad rendering is delayed until the user confirms the notification.

##### data-loading-strategy (optional)

Instructs the ad to start loading when the ad is within the given number of viewports away from the current viewport. You must specify a float value in the range of [0, 3]. By default, the value is 3. Use a smaller value to gain a higher degree of viewability (i.e., increase the chance that an ad, once loaded, will be seen) but with the risk of generating fewer impressions (i.e., fewer ads loaded). If the attribute is used but the value is left blank, then a float value is assigned by the system, which optimizes for viewability without drastically impacting the impressions.

##### common attributes

This element includes [common attributes](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/common_attributes) extended to AMP components.

## Placeholder

Optionally, `amp-ad` supports a child element with the `placeholder` attribute. If supported by the ad network, this element is shown until the ad is available for viewing. Learn more in [Placeholders & Fallbacks](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/placeholders).

```html
<amp-ad width=300 height=250
    type="foo">
  <div placeholder>Loading ...</div>
</amp-ad>
```

## No ad available

The `amp-ad` component supports a child element with the `fallback` attribute. If supported by the ad network, the fallback element is shown if no ad is available for this slot.

If there is no fallback element available, the `amp-ad` element is collapsed (that is, set to `display: none`) if the ad sends a message that the ad slot cannot be filled and AMP determines that this operation can be performed without affecting the user's scroll position.

Example with fallback:

```html
<amp-ad width=300 height=250 type="foo">
  <div fallback>No ad for you</div>
</amp-ad>
```

## Serving video ads
AMP natively supports a number video players like BrightCove, DailyMotion, etc. that can monetize ads. For a full list, see the [media](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/components#media) components.

If you use a player that is not supported in AMP, you can serve your custom player using [amp-iframe](https://ampbyexample.com/components/amp-iframe/).

When using `amp-iframe` approach:
 - Make sure there is a poster if loading the player in the first viewport. [Details](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/components/amp-iframe#iframe-with-placeholder).
 - Video and poster must be served over HTTPS.


## Running ads from a custom domain

AMP supports loading the bootstrap iframe that is used to load ads from a custom domain such as your own domain.

To enable this, copy the file [remote.html](../../3p/remote.html) to your web server. Next up add the following meta tag to your AMP file(s):

```html
<meta name="amp-3p-iframe-src" content="https://assets.your-domain.com/path/to/remote.html">
```

The `content` attribute of the meta tag is the absolute URL to your copy of the remote.html file on your web server. This URL must use a "https" schema. It cannot reside on the same origin as your AMP files. For example, if you host AMP files on `www.example.com`, this URL must not be on `www.example.com` but `something-else.example.com` is OK. See ["Iframe origin policy"](../../spec/amp-iframe-origin-policy.md) for further details on allowed origins for iframes.

### Security

**Validate incoming data** before passing it on to the `draw3p` function, to make sure your iframe only does things it expects to do. This is true, in particular, for ad networks that allow custom JavaScript injection.

Iframes should also enforce that they are only iframed into origins that they expect to be iframed into. The origins would be:

- your own origins
- `https://cdn.ampproject.org` for the AMP cache

In the case of the AMP cache you also need to check that the "source origin" (origin of the document served by cdn.ampproject.org) is one of your origins.

Enforcing origins can be done with the 3rd argument to `draw3p` and must additionally be done using the [allow-from](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/X-Frame-Options) directive for full browser support.

### Enhance incoming ad configuration

This is completely optional: It is sometimes desired to further process the incoming iframe configuration before drawing the ad using AMP's built-in system.

This is supported by passing a callback to the `draw3p` function call in the [remote.html](../../3p/remote.html) file. The callback receives the incoming configuration as first argument and then receives another callback as second argument (Called `done` in the example below). This callback must be called with the updated config in order for ad rendering to proceed.

Example:

```JS
draw3p(function(config, done) {
  config.targeting = Math.random() > 0.5 ? 'sport' : 'fashion';
  // Don't actually call setTimeout here. This should only serve as an
  // example that is OK to call the done callback asynchronously.
  setTimeout(function() {
    done(config);
  }, 100)
}, ['allowed-ad-type'], ['your-domain.com']);
```

## Styling

`<amp-ad>` elements may not themselves have or be placed in containers that have CSS `position: fixed` set (with the exception of `amp-lightbox`).
This is due to the UX implications of full page overlay ads. It may be considered to allow similar ad formats in the future inside of AMP controlled containers that maintain certain UX invariants.

## Validation

See [amp-ad rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-ad/validator-amp-ad.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.

## Supported ad networks

- [A8](../../ads/a8.md)
- [A9](../../ads/a9.md)
- [AccessTrade](../../ads/accesstrade.md)
- [Adblade](../../ads/adblade.md)
- [AdButler](../../ads/adbutler.md)
- [Adform](../../ads/adform.md)
- [Adfox](../../ads/adfox.md)
- [Ad Generation](../../ads/adgeneration.md)
- [Adhese](../../ads/adhese.md)
- [ADITION](../../ads/adition.md)
- [Adman](../../ads/adman.md)
- [AdmanMedia](../../ads/admanmedia.md)
- [AdReactor](../../ads/adreactor.md)
- [AdSense](../../ads/google/adsense.md)
- [AdsNative](../../ads/adsnative.md)
- [AdSpirit](../../ads/adspirit.md)
- [AdSpeed](../../ads/adspeed.md)
- [AdStir](../../ads/adstir.md)
- [AdTech](../../ads/adtech.md)
- [AdThrive](../../ads/adthrive.md)
- [Ad Up Technology](../../ads/aduptech.md)
- [Adverline](../../ads/adverline.md)
- [Adverticum](../../ads/adverticum.md)
- [AdvertServe](../../ads/advertserve.md)
- [Affiliate-B](../../ads/affiliateb.md)
- [AMoAd](../../ads/amoad.md)
- [AppNexus](../../ads/appnexus.md)
- [Atomx](../../ads/atomx.md)
- [Bidtellect](../../ads/bidtellect.md)
- [brainy](../../ads/brainy.md)
- [CA A.J.A. Infeed](../../ads/caajainfeed.md)
- [CA-ProFit-X](../../ads/caprofitx.md)
- [Chargeads](../../ads/chargeads.md)
- [Colombia](../../ads/colombia.md)
- [Content.ad](../../ads/contentad.md)
- [Criteo](../../ads/criteo.md)
- [CSA](../../ads/google/csa.md)
- [CxenseDisplay](../../ads/eas.md)
- [Dianomi](../../ads/dianomi.md)
- [Directadvert](../../ads/directadvert.md)
- [DistroScale](../../ads/distroscale.md)
- [Dot and Media](../../ads/dotandads.md)
- [Doubleclick](../../ads/google/doubleclick.md)
- [E-Planning](../../ads/eplanning.md)
- [Ezoic](../../ads/ezoic.md)
- [FlexOneELEPHANT](../../ads/f1e.md)
- [FlexOneHARRIER](../../ads/f1h.md)
- [fluct](../../ads/fluct.md)
- [Felmat](../../ads/felmat.md)
- [Flite](../../ads/flite.md)
- [Fusion](../../ads/fusion.md)
- [GenieeSSP](../../ads/genieessp.md)
- [GMOSSP](../../ads/gmossp.md)
- [GumGum](../../ads/gumgum.md)
- [Holder](../../ads/holder.md)
- [Imedia](../../ads/imedia.md)
- [I-Mobile](../../ads/imobile.md)
- [iBillboard](../../ads/ibillboard.md)
- [Improve Digital](../../ads/improvedigital.md)
- [Index Exchange](../../ads/ix.md)
- [Industrybrains](../../ads/industrybrains.md)
- [InMobi](../../ads/inmobi.md)
- [Innity](../../ads/innity.md)
- [Kargo](../../ads/kargo.md)
- [Kiosked](../../ads/kiosked.md)
- [Kixer](../../ads/kixer.md)
- [Ligatus](../../ads/ligatus.md)
- [LOKA](../../ads/loka.md)
- [MADS](../../ads/mads.md)
- [MANTIS](../../ads/mantis.md)
- [MediaImpact](../../ads/mediaimpact.md)
- [Media.net](../../ads/medianet.md)
- [Mediavine](../../ads/mediavine.md)
- [Meg](../../ads/meg.md)
- [MicroAd](../../ads/microad.md)
- [Mixpo](../../ads/mixpo.md)
- [myWidget](../../ads/mywidget.md)
- [Nativo](../../ads/nativo.md)
- [Navegg](../../ads/navegg.md)
- [Nend](../../ads/nend.md)
- [NETLETIX](../../ads/netletix.md)
- [Nokta](../../ads/nokta.md)
- [Open AdStream (OAS)](../../ads/openadstream.md)
- [OpenX](../../ads/openx.md)
- [plista](../../ads/plista.md)
- [polymorphicAds](../../ads/polymorphicads.md)
- [popin](../../ads/popin.md)
- [PubMatic](../../ads/pubmatic.md)
- [Pubmine](../../ads/pubmine.md)
- [PulsePoint](../../ads/pulsepoint.md)
- [Purch](../../ads/purch.md)
- [Rambler&Co](../../ads/capirs.md)
- [Relap](../../ads/relap.md)
- [Revcontent](../../ads/revcontent.md)
- [Rubicon Project](../../ads/rubicon.md)
- [Sharethrough](../../ads/sharethrough.md)
- [Sklik](../../ads/sklik.md)
- [SlimCut Media](../../ads/slimcutmedia.md)
- [Smart AdServer](../../ads/smartadserver.md)
- [smartclip](../../ads/smartclip.md)
- [Sortable](../../ads/sortable.md)
- [sogou Ad](../../ads/sogouad.md)
- [SOVRN](../../ads/sovrn.md)
- [SpotX](../../ads/spotx.md)
- [SunMedia](../../ads/sunmedia.md)
- [Swoop](../../ads/swoop.md)
- [Teads](../../ads/teads.md)
- [TripleLift](../../ads/triplelift.md)
- [ValueCommerce](../../ads/valuecommerce.md)
- [VMFive](../../ads/vmfive.md)
- [Webediads](../../ads/webediads.md)
- [Weborama](../../ads/weborama.md)
- [Widespace](../../ads/widespace.md)
- [Xlift](../../ads/xlift.md)
- [Yahoo](../../ads/yahoo.md)
- [YahooJP](../../ads/yahoojp.md)
- [Yandex](../../ads/yandex.md)
- [Yieldbot](../../ads/yieldbot.md)
- [Yieldmo](../../ads/yieldmo.md)
- [Yieldone](../../ads/yieldone.md)
- [Zedo](../../ads/zedo.md)
- [Zucks](../../ads/zucks.md)

## Supported embed types

- [Bringhub](../../ads/bringhub.md)
- [Dable](../../ads/dable.md)
- [Engageya](../../ads/engageya.md)
- [Outbrain](../../ads/outbrain.md)
- [Taboola](../../ads/taboola.md)
- [ZergNet](../../ads/zergnet.md)

Commit message:

Makes `data-vars-` attribute work in amp-ad. (#10438)
* Makes data-vars- works for amp-ad.

* use startsWith

extensions/amp-ad/amp-ad.md, after:

# <a name="amp-ad"></a> `amp-ad` / `amp-embed`

[TOC]

{% call callout('Note', type='note') %}
The specification of `amp-ad` / `amp-embed` is likely to significantly evolve over time. The current approach is designed to bootstrap the format to be able to show ads.
{% endcall %}

<!---
Copyright 2015 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<table>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>A container to display an ad. The <code>amp-embed</code> is an alias to the <code>amp-ad</code> tag, deriving all of its functionality with a different tag name. Use <code>amp-embed</code> when semantically more accurate. AMP documents only support ads/embeds served via HTTPS.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-ad" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-ad-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code><br>Note: amp-ad may still work without this script, but we highly recommend it for future compatibility</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>fill, fixed, fixed-height, flex-item, nodisplay, responsive</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong>Examples</strong></td>
    <td>See AMP By Example's <a href="https://ampbyexample.com/components/amp-ad/">amp-ad example</a>.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Behavior

Ads are loaded like all other resources in AMP documents, with a special
custom element called `<amp-ad>`. No ad network-provided JavaScript is allowed to run inside the AMP document. Instead, the AMP runtime loads an iframe from a
different origin (via iframe sandbox) as the AMP document and executes the ad
network’s JS inside that iframe sandbox.

The `<amp-ad>` requires width and height values to be specified according to the [rule](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-html-layout.md#tldr-summary-of-layout-requirements--behaviors) of its layout type. It requires a `type` argument that select what ad network is displayed. All `data-*` attributes on the tag are automatically passed as arguments to the code that eventually renders the ad. What `data-` attributes are required for a given type of network depends and must be documented with the ad network.

#### Example: Displaying a few ads
<!--embedded example - displays in ampproject.org -->
<div>
<amp-iframe height="522"
            layout="fixed-height"
            sandbox="allow-scripts allow-forms allow-same-origin"
            resizable
            src="https://ampproject-b5f4c.firebaseapp.com/examples/ampad.basic.embed.html">
  <div overflow tabindex="0" role="button" aria-label="Show more">Show full code</div>
  <div placeholder></div>
</amp-iframe>
</div>

## Attributes

##### type (required)

Specifies an identifier for the [ad network](#supported-ad-networks). The `type`attribute selects the template to use for the ad tag.

##### src (optional)

Use this attribute to load a script tag for the specified ad network. This can be used for ad networks that require exactly a single script tag to be inserted in the page. The `src` value must have a prefix that is white-listed for the specified ad network, and the value must use `https` protocol.

##### data-foo-bar

Most ad networks require further configuration, which can be passed to the network by using HTML `data-` attributes. The parameter names are subject to standard data attribute dash to camel case conversion. For example, "data-foo-bar" is send to the ad for configuration as "fooBar".  See the documentation for the [ad network](#supported-ad-networks) on which attributes can be used.

##### data-vars-foo-bar

Attributes starting with `data-vars-` are reserved for [`amp-analytics` vars](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-analytics/analytics-vars.md#variables-as-data-attribute). 

##### json (optional)

Use this attribute to pass a configuration to the ad as an arbitrarily complex JSON object. The object is passed to the ad as-is with no mangling done on the names.

##### data-consent-notification-id (optional)

If provided, requires confirming the [amp-user-notification](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/components/amp-user-notification.html) with the given HTML-id until the "AMP client id" for the user (similar to a cookie) is passed to the ad. This means that ad rendering is delayed until the user confirms the notification.

##### data-loading-strategy (optional)

Instructs the ad to start loading when the ad is within the given number of viewports away from the current viewport. You must specify a float value in the range of [0, 3]. By default, the value is 3. Use a smaller value to gain a higher degree of viewability (i.e., increase the chance that an ad, once loaded, will be seen) but with the risk of generating fewer impressions (i.e., fewer ads loaded). If the attribute is used but the value is left blank, then a float value is assigned by the system, which optimizes for viewability without drastically impacting the impressions.

##### common attributes

This element includes [common attributes](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/common_attributes) extended to AMP components.

## Placeholder

Optionally, `amp-ad` supports a child element with the `placeholder` attribute. If supported by the ad network, this element is shown until the ad is available for viewing. Learn more in [Placeholders & Fallbacks](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/placeholders).

```html
<amp-ad width=300 height=250
    type="foo">
  <div placeholder>Loading ...</div>
</amp-ad>
```

## No ad available

The `amp-ad` component supports a child element with the `fallback` attribute. If supported by the ad network, the fallback element is shown if no ad is available for this slot.

If there is no fallback element available, the `amp-ad` element is collapsed (that is, set to `display: none`) if the ad sends a message that the ad slot cannot be filled and AMP determines that this operation can be performed without affecting the user's scroll position.

Example with fallback:

```html
<amp-ad width=300 height=250 type="foo">
  <div fallback>No ad for you</div>
</amp-ad>
```

## Serving video ads
AMP natively supports a number video players like BrightCove, DailyMotion, etc. that can monetize ads. For a full list, see the [media](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/components#media) components.

If you use a player that is not supported in AMP, you can serve your custom player using [amp-iframe](https://ampbyexample.com/components/amp-iframe/).

When using `amp-iframe` approach:
 - Make sure there is a poster if loading the player in the first viewport. [Details](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/components/amp-iframe#iframe-with-placeholder).
 - Video and poster must be served over HTTPS.


## Running ads from a custom domain

AMP supports loading the bootstrap iframe that is used to load ads from a custom domain such as your own domain.

To enable this, copy the file [remote.html](../../3p/remote.html) to your web server. Next up add the following meta tag to your AMP file(s):

```html
<meta name="amp-3p-iframe-src" content="https://assets.your-domain.com/path/to/remote.html">
```

The `content` attribute of the meta tag is the absolute URL to your copy of the remote.html file on your web server. This URL must use a "https" schema. It cannot reside on the same origin as your AMP files. For example, if you host AMP files on `www.example.com`, this URL must not be on `www.example.com` but `something-else.example.com` is OK. See ["Iframe origin policy"](../../spec/amp-iframe-origin-policy.md) for further details on allowed origins for iframes.

### Security

**Validate incoming data** before passing it on to the `draw3p` function, to make sure your iframe only does things it expects to do. This is true, in particular, for ad networks that allow custom JavaScript injection.

Iframes should also enforce that they are only iframed into origins that they expect to be iframed into. The origins would be:

- your own origins
- `https://cdn.ampproject.org` for the AMP cache

In the case of the AMP cache you also need to check that the "source origin" (origin of the document served by cdn.ampproject.org) is one of your origins.

Enforcing origins can be done with the 3rd argument to `draw3p` and must additionally be done using the [allow-from](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/X-Frame-Options) directive for full browser support.

### Enhance incoming ad configuration

This is completely optional: It is sometimes desired to further process the incoming iframe configuration before drawing the ad using AMP's built-in system.

This is supported by passing a callback to the `draw3p` function call in the [remote.html](../../3p/remote.html) file. The callback receives the incoming configuration as first argument and then receives another callback as second argument (Called `done` in the example below). This callback must be called with the updated config in order for ad rendering to proceed.

Example:

```JS
draw3p(function(config, done) {
  config.targeting = Math.random() > 0.5 ? 'sport' : 'fashion';
  // Don't actually call setTimeout here. This should only serve as an
  // example that is OK to call the done callback asynchronously.
  setTimeout(function() {
    done(config);
  }, 100)
}, ['allowed-ad-type'], ['your-domain.com']);
```

## Styling

`<amp-ad>` elements may not themselves have or be placed in containers that have CSS `position: fixed` set (with the exception of `amp-lightbox`).
This is due to the UX implications of full page overlay ads. It may be considered to allow similar ad formats in the future inside of AMP controlled containers that maintain certain UX invariants.

## Validation

See [amp-ad rules](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-ad/validator-amp-ad.protoascii) in the AMP validator specification.

## Supported ad networks

- [A8](../../ads/a8.md)
- [A9](../../ads/a9.md)
- [AccessTrade](../../ads/accesstrade.md)
- [Adblade](../../ads/adblade.md)
- [AdButler](../../ads/adbutler.md)
- [Adform](../../ads/adform.md)
- [Adfox](../../ads/adfox.md)
- [Ad Generation](../../ads/adgeneration.md)
- [Adhese](../../ads/adhese.md)
- [ADITION](../../ads/adition.md)
- [Adman](../../ads/adman.md)
- [AdmanMedia](../../ads/admanmedia.md)
- [AdReactor](../../ads/adreactor.md)
- [AdSense](../../ads/google/adsense.md)
- [AdsNative](../../ads/adsnative.md)
- [AdSpirit](../../ads/adspirit.md)
- [AdSpeed](../../ads/adspeed.md)
- [AdStir](../../ads/adstir.md)
- [AdTech](../../ads/adtech.md)
- [AdThrive](../../ads/adthrive.md)
- [Ad Up Technology](../../ads/aduptech.md)
- [Adverline](../../ads/adverline.md)
- [Adverticum](../../ads/adverticum.md)
- [AdvertServe](../../ads/advertserve.md)
- [Affiliate-B](../../ads/affiliateb.md)
- [AMoAd](../../ads/amoad.md)
- [AppNexus](../../ads/appnexus.md)
- [Atomx](../../ads/atomx.md)
- [Bidtellect](../../ads/bidtellect.md)
- [brainy](../../ads/brainy.md)
- [CA A.J.A. Infeed](../../ads/caajainfeed.md)
- [CA-ProFit-X](../../ads/caprofitx.md)
- [Chargeads](../../ads/chargeads.md)
- [Colombia](../../ads/colombia.md)
- [Content.ad](../../ads/contentad.md)
- [Criteo](../../ads/criteo.md)
- [CSA](../../ads/google/csa.md)
- [CxenseDisplay](../../ads/eas.md)
- [Dianomi](../../ads/dianomi.md)
- [Directadvert](../../ads/directadvert.md)
- [DistroScale](../../ads/distroscale.md)
- [Dot and Media](../../ads/dotandads.md)
- [Doubleclick](../../ads/google/doubleclick.md)
- [E-Planning](../../ads/eplanning.md)
- [Ezoic](../../ads/ezoic.md)
- [FlexOneELEPHANT](../../ads/f1e.md)
- [FlexOneHARRIER](../../ads/f1h.md)
- [fluct](../../ads/fluct.md)
- [Felmat](../../ads/felmat.md)
- [Flite](../../ads/flite.md)
- [Fusion](../../ads/fusion.md)
- [GenieeSSP](../../ads/genieessp.md)
- [GMOSSP](../../ads/gmossp.md)
- [GumGum](../../ads/gumgum.md)
- [Holder](../../ads/holder.md)
- [Imedia](../../ads/imedia.md)
- [I-Mobile](../../ads/imobile.md)
- [iBillboard](../../ads/ibillboard.md)
- [Improve Digital](../../ads/improvedigital.md)
- [Index Exchange](../../ads/ix.md)
- [Industrybrains](../../ads/industrybrains.md)
- [InMobi](../../ads/inmobi.md)
- [Innity](../../ads/innity.md)
- [Kargo](../../ads/kargo.md)
- [Kiosked](../../ads/kiosked.md)
- [Kixer](../../ads/kixer.md)
- [Ligatus](../../ads/ligatus.md)
- [LOKA](../../ads/loka.md)
- [MADS](../../ads/mads.md)
- [MANTIS](../../ads/mantis.md)
- [MediaImpact](../../ads/mediaimpact.md)
- [Media.net](../../ads/medianet.md)
- [Mediavine](../../ads/mediavine.md)
- [Meg](../../ads/meg.md)
- [MicroAd](../../ads/microad.md)
- [Mixpo](../../ads/mixpo.md)
- [myWidget](../../ads/mywidget.md)
- [Nativo](../../ads/nativo.md)
- [Navegg](../../ads/navegg.md)
- [Nend](../../ads/nend.md)
- [NETLETIX](../../ads/netletix.md)
- [Nokta](../../ads/nokta.md)
- [Open AdStream (OAS)](../../ads/openadstream.md)
- [OpenX](../../ads/openx.md)
- [plista](../../ads/plista.md)
- [polymorphicAds](../../ads/polymorphicads.md)
- [popin](../../ads/popin.md)
- [PubMatic](../../ads/pubmatic.md)
- [Pubmine](../../ads/pubmine.md)
- [PulsePoint](../../ads/pulsepoint.md)
- [Purch](../../ads/purch.md)
- [Rambler&Co](../../ads/capirs.md)
- [Relap](../../ads/relap.md)
- [Revcontent](../../ads/revcontent.md)
- [Rubicon Project](../../ads/rubicon.md)
- [Sharethrough](../../ads/sharethrough.md)
- [Sklik](../../ads/sklik.md)
- [SlimCut Media](../../ads/slimcutmedia.md)
- [Smart AdServer](../../ads/smartadserver.md)
- [smartclip](../../ads/smartclip.md)
- [Sortable](../../ads/sortable.md)
- [sogou Ad](../../ads/sogouad.md)
- [SOVRN](../../ads/sovrn.md)
- [SpotX](../../ads/spotx.md)
- [SunMedia](../../ads/sunmedia.md)
- [Swoop](../../ads/swoop.md)
- [Teads](../../ads/teads.md)
- [TripleLift](../../ads/triplelift.md)
- [ValueCommerce](../../ads/valuecommerce.md)
- [VMFive](../../ads/vmfive.md)
- [Webediads](../../ads/webediads.md)
- [Weborama](../../ads/weborama.md)
- [Widespace](../../ads/widespace.md)
- [Xlift](../../ads/xlift.md)
- [Yahoo](../../ads/yahoo.md)
- [YahooJP](../../ads/yahoojp.md)
- [Yandex](../../ads/yandex.md)
- [Yieldbot](../../ads/yieldbot.md)
- [Yieldmo](../../ads/yieldmo.md)
- [Yieldone](../../ads/yieldone.md)
- [Zedo](../../ads/zedo.md)
- [Zucks](../../ads/zucks.md)

## Supported embed types

- [Bringhub](../../ads/bringhub.md)
- [Dable](../../ads/dable.md)
- [Engageya](../../ads/engageya.md)
- [Outbrain](../../ads/outbrain.md)
- [Taboola](../../ads/taboola.md)
- [ZergNet](../../ads/zergnet.md)
