extensions/amp-animation/amp-animation.md, before:

<!---
Copyright 2016 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# <a name="amp-animation"></a> `amp-animation`

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>Animation component</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Availability</strong></td>
    <td><div><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/experimental.html">Experimental</a>; no validations yet.</div><div>Work in progress.</div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-animation" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-animation-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>nodisplay</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[TOC]

## Overview

AMP Animations rely on [Web Animations API](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/) to define and run animations in AMP documents.

## Format

An `amp-animation` element defines such an animation as a JSON structure.

### Top-level animation specification

The top-level object defines an overall animation process which consists of an arbitrary number of animation components
defined as an `animations` array:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  // Timing properties
  ...
  "animations": [
    {
      // Animation 1
    },
    ...
    {
      // Animation N
    }
  ]
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

### Placement in DOM

Initially, `<amp-animation>` is only allowed to be placed as a direct child of `<body>` element. This restriction
will be removed in the near future.

### Animation component

Each animation component is a [keyframes effect](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#dom-keyframeeffect-keyframeeffect)
and is comprised of:
 - Target element(s) referenced by a selector
 - Conditions, such as media query
 - Timing properties
 - Keyframes

```text
{
  "selector": "#target-id",
  "media": "(min-width:300px)",
  // Variables
  // Timing properties
  // Subtargets
  ...
  "keyframes": []
}
```


### Conditions

Conditions can specify whether this animation component is included in the final animation. Currently, only `media` expression is supported.

#### Media query

#### Media query

Media query can be specified using the `media` property. This property can contain any expression allowed
for [Window.matchMedia](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/matchMedia) API and corresponds to `@media` CSS rule.

If value is specified for an animation component, the animation component will only be included if the
media query will match the current environment.


### Variables

An animation component can declare CSS variables that will be used for timing and keyframes values via `var()` expressions. `var()` expressions are evaluated using the current target context. The CSS variables specified in animation components are propagated to nested animations, applied to animation targets and thus override CSS variables used in final animations.

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "--delay": "0.5s",
  "--x": "100px",
  "animations": [
    {
      "selector": "#target1",
      "delay": "var(--delay)",
      "--x": "150px",
      "keyframes": {"transform": "translate(var(--x), var(--y, 0px)"}
    },
    ...
  ]
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

In this sample:
 - `--delay` is propagated into nested animations and used as a delay of `#target1` animation.
 - `--x` is propagated into nested animations but overriden by the `#target1` animation and later used for `transform` property.
 - `--y` is not specified anywhere in the `<amp-animation>` and thus will be queried on the `#target1` element. It defaults to `0px` if not defined in CSS either.

For more information on `var()`, see the [`var()` and `calc()` section](#var-and-calc-expressions).


### Timing properties

Top-level animation and animation components may contain timing properties. These properties are defined in detail in the
[AnimationEffectTimingProperties](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#dictdef-animationeffecttimingproperties) of the Web Animation spec. The set of properties allowed here includes:


<table>
  <tr>
    <th class="col-twenty">Property</th>
    <th class="col-twenty">Type</th>
    <th class="col-twenty">Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>duration</code></td>
    <td>time</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The animation duration. Either a numeric value in milliseconds or a CSS time value, e.g. `2s`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>delay</code></td>
    <td>time</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The delay before animation starts executing. Either a numeric value in milliseconds or a CSS time value, e.g. `2s`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>endDelay</code></td>
    <td>time</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The delay after the animation completes and before it's actually considered to be complete. Either a numeric value in milliseconds or a CSS time value, e.g. `2s`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>iterations</code></td>
    <td>number or<br>"Infinity" or<br>"infinite"</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>The number of times the animation effect repeats.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>iterationStart</code></td>
    <td>number/CSS</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The time offset at which the effect begins animating.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>easing</code></td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>"linear"</td>
    <td>The <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#timing-function">timing function</a> used to scale the time to produce easing effects.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>direction</code></td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>"normal" </td>
    <td>One of "normal", "reverse", "alternate" or "alternate-reverse".</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>fill</code></td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>"none"</td>
    <td>One of "none", "forwards", "backwards", "both", "auto".</td>
  </tr>
</table>

All timing properties allow either a direct numeric/string values or CSS values. For instance, "duration" can be specified as `1000` or `1s` or `1000ms`. In addition, `calc()` and `var()` and other CSS expressions are also allowed.

An example of timing properties in JSON:
```text
{
  ...
  "duration": "1s",
  "delay": 100,
  "endDelay": "var(--end-delay, 10ms)",
  "easing": "ease-in",
  "fill": "both"
  ...
}
```

Animation components inherit timing properties specified for the top-level animation.


### Subtargets

Everywhere where `selector` can be specified, it's possible to also specify `subtargets: []`. Subtargets can override timing properties or variables defined in the animation for specific subtargets indicated via either an index or a CSS selector.

For instance:
```text
{
  "selector": ".target",
  "delay": 100,
  "--y": "100px",
  "subtargets": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "delay": 200,
    },
    {
      "selector": ":nth-child(2n+1)",
      "--y": "200px"
    }
  ]
}
```

In this example, by default all targets matched by the ".target" have delay of 100ms and "--y" of 100px. However, the first target (`index: 0`) is overriden to have delay of 200ms; and odd targets are overriden to have "--y" of 200px.

Notice, that multiple subtargets can match one target element.


### Keyframes

Keyframes can be specified in numerous ways described in the [keyframes section](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#processing-a-keyframes-argument) of the Web Animations spec or as a string refering to the `@keyframes` name in the CSS.

Some typical examples of keyframes definitions are below.

Shorthand object-form "to" format specifies the final state at 100%:
```text
{
  "keyframes": {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(2)"}
}
```

Shorthand object-form "from-to" format specifies the starting and final states at 0 and 100%:
```text
{
  "keyframes": {
    "opacity": [1, 0],
    "transform": ["scale(1)", "scale(2)"]
  }
}
```

Shorthand object-form "value-array" format specifies multiple values for starting, final states and multiple (equal-spaced) offsets:
```text
{
  "keyframes": {
    "opacity": [1, 0.1, 0],
    "transform": ["scale(1)", "scale(1.1)", "scale(2)"]
  }
}
```

The array-form specifies keyframes. Offsets are assigned automatically at 0, 100% and spaced evenly in-between:
```text
{
  "keyframes": [
    {"opacity": 1, "transform": "scale(1)"},
    {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(2)"}
  ]
}
```

The array-form can also include "offset" explicitly:
```text
{
  "keyframes": [
    {"opacity": 1, "transform": "scale(1)"},
    {"offset": 0.1, "opacity": 0.1, "transform": "scale(2)"},
    {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(3)"}
  ]
}
```

The array-form can also include "easing":
```text
{
  "keyframes": [
    {"easing": "ease-out", "opacity": 1, "transform": "scale(1)"},
    {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(2)"}
  ]
}
```

For additional keyframes formats refer to [Web Animations spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#processing-a-keyframes-argument).

The property values allow any valid CSS values, including `calc()`, `var()` and other CSS expressions.

#### Keyframes from CSS

Another way to specify keyframes is in the document's stylesheet (`<style>` tag) as `@keyframes` CSS rule. For instance:
```html
<style amp-custom>
  @keyframes keyframes1 {
    from {
      opacity: 0;
    }
    to {
      opacity: 1;
    }
  }
</style>

<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "duration": "1s",
  "keyframes": "keyframes1"
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

CSS `@keyframes` are mostly equivalent to inlining keyframes definition in the JSON per [Web Animations spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#processing-a-keyframes-argument). However, there are some nuances:
 - For broad-platform support, vendor prefixes, e.g. `@-ms-keyframes {}` or `-moz-transform` may be needed. Vendor prefixes are not needed and not allowed in the JSON format, but in CSS they could be necessary.
 - Platforms that do not support `calc()` and `var()` will not be able to take advantage of `amp-animation` polyfills when keyframes are specified in CSS. It's thus recommended to always include fallback values in CSS.
 - CSS extensions such as [`width()`, `height()` and `rand()`](#css-extensions) cannot be used in CSS.


#### Whitelisted properties for keyframes

Not all CSS properties can be used in keyframes. Only CSS properties that modern browsers can optimize and
animate quickly are whitelisted. This list will grow as more properties are confirmed to provide good
performance. Currently the list contains:
 - `opacity`
 - `transform`
 - `visibility`
 - 'offsetDistance'


Notice that the use of vendor prefixed CSS properties is neither needed nor allowed.


### Abbreviated forms of animation configuration

If the animation only involves a single element and a single keyframes effect is sufficient, the configuration
can be reduced to this one animation component only. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "selector": "#target-id",
  "duration": "1s",
  "keyframes": {"opacity": 1}
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

If the animation is comprised of a list of components, but doesn't have top-level animation, the configuration
can be reduced to an array of components. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
[
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": 1000,
    "keyframes": {"opacity": 1}
  },
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": 600,
    "delay": 400,
    "keyframes": {"transform": "scale(2)"}
  }
]
</script>
</amp-animation>
```


### Animation composition

Animations can reference other animations thus combining several `amp-animation` declarations into a single final animation. Referencing an animation from another animation is mostly the same as nesting. The reason why one would want to split animations into different elements would be to reuse the same animation from several places or to simply make each animation declaration smaller and more manageable.

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "animation": "anim2",
  "duration": 1000,
  "--scale": 2
}
</script>
</amp-animation>

<amp-animation id="anim2" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "selector": ".target-class",
  "keyframes": {"transform": "scale(var(--scale))"}
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

This sample animation, will combine "anim2" animation as part of "anim1". The "anim2" is included
without a target (`selector`). In such case, the included animation is expected to reference its own target.

Another form allows the including animation to provide the target or multiple targets. In that case, the included
animation is executed for each matched target. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "selector": ".target-class",
  "animation": "anim2",
  "duration": 1000,
  "--scale": 2
}
</script>
</amp-animation>

<amp-animation id="anim2" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "keyframes": {"transform": "scale(var(--scale))"}
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

Here, whether the ".target-class" matches one element, several or none - the "anim2" is executed for each matched target.

The variables and timing properties specified in the caller animation are passed to the included animation as well.


### `var()` and `calc()` expressions

`amp-animation` allows use of `var()` and `calc()` expressions for timing and keyframes values.

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
[
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": "4s",
    "delay": "var(--delay)",
    "--y": "var(--other-y, 100px)",
    "keyframes": {"transform": "translate(calc(100vh + 20px), var(--y))"}
  }
]
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

Both `var()` and `calc()` polyfilled on platforms that do not directly support them. `var()` properties are extracted from the corresponding target elements. However, it's unfortunately impossible to fully polyfill `var()`. Thus, where compatibility is important, it's strongly recommended to include default values in the `var()` expressions. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
[
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": "4s",
    "delay": "var(--delay, 100ms)",
  }
]
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

Animation components can specify their own variables as `--var-name` fields. These variables are propagated into nested animations and override variables of target elements specified via stylesheet (`<style>` tag). `var()` expressions first try to resolve variable values specified in the animations and then by querying target styles.


### CSS extensions

`amp-animation` provides several CSS extensions for typical animations needs: `rand()`, `width()`, and `height()`. These functions can be used everywhere where CSS values can be used within `amp-animation`, including timing and keyframes values.

#### CSS `rand()` extension

The `rand()` function returns a random CSS value. There are two forms.

The form without arguments simply returns the random number between 0 and 1.
```
{
  "animation-delay": "calc(10s * rand())"
}
```

The second form has two arguments and returns the random value between these two arguments.
```
{
  "animation-delay": "rand(5s, 10s)"
}
```

#### CSS `width()` and `height()` extensions

The `width()` and `height()` extensions return the width/height of the animated element or the element specified by the selector. The returned value is in pixels, e.g. `100px`.

The following forms are supported:
 - `width()` and `height()` - width/height of the animated element.
 - `width('.selector')` and `height('.selector')` - width/height of the element specified by the selector. Any CSS selector can be used. For instance, `width('#container > li')`.
 - `width(closest('.selector'))` and `height(closest('.selector'))` - width/height of the element specified by the closest selector.

The `width()` and `height()` are epsecially useful for transforms. The `left`, `top` and similar CSS properties that can use `%` values to express animations proportional to container size. However, `transform` property interpretes `%` values differently - as a percent of the selected element. Thus, the `width()` and `height()` can be used to express transform animations in terms of container elements and similar.

These functions can be combined with `calc()`, `var()` and other CSS expressions. For instance:
```
{
  "transform": "translateX(calc(width('#container') + 10px))"
}
```


## Triggering animation

The animation can be triggered via a `trigger` attribute or an `on` action.

### `trigger` attribute

Currently, `visibility` is the only available value for the `trigger` attribute. The `visibility` triggers when the underlying document or embed are visible (in viewport).

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay"
    trigger="visibility">
  ...
</amp-animation>
```

### Triggering via `on` action

For instance:

```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay">
  ...
</amp-animation>
<button on="tap:anim1.start">Animate</button>
```


## `on` actions

`amp-animation` element exports the following actions:

- `start` - Starts the animation is it's not running already. Timing properties and variables
  can be specified as action arguments. E.g. `anim1.start(delay=-100, --scale=2)`.
- `restart` - Starts the animation or restarts the currently running one. Timing properties and variables
  can be specified as action arguments. E.g. `anim1.start(delay=-100, --scale=2)`.
- `pause` - Pauses the currently running animation.
- `resume` - Resumes the currently running animation.
- `togglePause` - Toggles pause/resume actions.
- `seekTo` - Pauses the animation and seeks to the point of time specified by the `time` argument in milliseconds.
- `reverse` - Reverses the animation.
- `finish` - Finishes the animation.
- `cancel` - Cancels the animation.

Commit message:

Animations: 'supports' condition and fallback (#10445)
* Animations: 'supports' condition and fallback

* spelling

extensions/amp-animation/amp-animation.md, after:

<!---
Copyright 2016 The AMP HTML Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS-IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# <a name="amp-animation"></a> `amp-animation`

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Description</strong></td>
    <td>Animation component</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Availability</strong></td>
    <td><div><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/reference/experimental.html">Experimental</a>; no validations yet.</div><div>Work in progress.</div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="40%"><strong>Required Script</strong></td>
    <td><code>&lt;script async custom-element="amp-animation" src="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-animation-0.1.js">&lt;/script></code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="col-fourty"><strong><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/responsive/control_layout.html">Supported Layouts</a></strong></td>
    <td>nodisplay</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[TOC]

## Overview

AMP Animations rely on [Web Animations API](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/) to define and run animations in AMP documents.

## Format

An `amp-animation` element defines such an animation as a JSON structure.

### Top-level animation specification

The top-level object defines an overall animation process which consists of an arbitrary number of animation components
defined as an `animations` array:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  // Timing properties
  ...
  "animations": [
    {
      // Animation 1
    },
    ...
    {
      // Animation N
    }
  ]
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

### Placement in DOM

Initially, `<amp-animation>` is only allowed to be placed as a direct child of `<body>` element. This restriction
will be removed in the near future.

### Animation component

Each animation component is a [keyframes effect](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#dom-keyframeeffect-keyframeeffect)
and is comprised of:
 - Target element(s) referenced by a selector
 - Conditions: media query and supports condition
 - Timing properties
 - Keyframes

```text
{
  "selector": "#target-id",
  // Conditions
  // Variables
  // Timing properties
  // Subtargets
  ...
  "keyframes": []
}
```


### Conditions

Conditions can specify whether this animation component is included in the final animation. Currently, only `media` expression is supported.

#### Media query

Media query can be specified using the `media` property. This property can contain any expression allowed
for [Window.matchMedia](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/matchMedia) API and corresponds to `@media` CSS rule.

If value is specified for an animation component, the animation component will only be included if the
media query will match the current environment.

#### Supports condition

Supports condition can be specified using the `supports` property. This property can contain any expression allowed
for [CSS.supports](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS/supports) API and corresponds to `@supports` CSS rule.

If value is specified for an animation component, the animation component will only be included if the
supports condition will match the current environment.


### Variables

An animation component can declare CSS variables that will be used for timing and keyframes values via `var()` expressions. `var()` expressions are evaluated using the current target context. The CSS variables specified in animation components are propagated to nested animations, applied to animation targets and thus override CSS variables used in final animations.

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "--delay": "0.5s",
  "--x": "100px",
  "animations": [
    {
      "selector": "#target1",
      "delay": "var(--delay)",
      "--x": "150px",
      "keyframes": {"transform": "translate(var(--x), var(--y, 0px)"}
    },
    ...
  ]
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

In this sample:
 - `--delay` is propagated into nested animations and used as a delay of `#target1` animation.
 - `--x` is propagated into nested animations but overriden by the `#target1` animation and later used for `transform` property.
 - `--y` is not specified anywhere in the `<amp-animation>` and thus will be queried on the `#target1` element. It defaults to `0px` if not defined in CSS either.

For more information on `var()`, see the [`var()` and `calc()` section](#var-and-calc-expressions).


### Timing properties

Top-level animation and animation components may contain timing properties. These properties are defined in detail in the
[AnimationEffectTimingProperties](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#dictdef-animationeffecttimingproperties) of the Web Animation spec. The set of properties allowed here includes:


<table>
  <tr>
    <th class="col-twenty">Property</th>
    <th class="col-twenty">Type</th>
    <th class="col-twenty">Default</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>duration</code></td>
    <td>time</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The animation duration. Either a numeric value in milliseconds or a CSS time value, e.g. `2s`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>delay</code></td>
    <td>time</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The delay before animation starts executing. Either a numeric value in milliseconds or a CSS time value, e.g. `2s`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>endDelay</code></td>
    <td>time</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The delay after the animation completes and before it's actually considered to be complete. Either a numeric value in milliseconds or a CSS time value, e.g. `2s`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>iterations</code></td>
    <td>number or<br>"Infinity" or<br>"infinite"</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>The number of times the animation effect repeats.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>iterationStart</code></td>
    <td>number/CSS</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>The time offset at which the effect begins animating.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>easing</code></td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>"linear"</td>
    <td>The <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#timing-function">timing function</a> used to scale the time to produce easing effects.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>direction</code></td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>"normal" </td>
    <td>One of "normal", "reverse", "alternate" or "alternate-reverse".</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>fill</code></td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>"none"</td>
    <td>One of "none", "forwards", "backwards", "both", "auto".</td>
  </tr>
</table>

All timing properties allow either a direct numeric/string values or CSS values. For instance, "duration" can be specified as `1000` or `1s` or `1000ms`. In addition, `calc()` and `var()` and other CSS expressions are also allowed.

An example of timing properties in JSON:
```text
{
  ...
  "duration": "1s",
  "delay": 100,
  "endDelay": "var(--end-delay, 10ms)",
  "easing": "ease-in",
  "fill": "both"
  ...
}
```

Animation components inherit timing properties specified for the top-level animation.


### Subtargets

Everywhere where `selector` can be specified, it's possible to also specify `subtargets: []`. Subtargets can override timing properties or variables defined in the animation for specific subtargets indicated via either an index or a CSS selector.

For instance:
```text
{
  "selector": ".target",
  "delay": 100,
  "--y": "100px",
  "subtargets": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "delay": 200,
    },
    {
      "selector": ":nth-child(2n+1)",
      "--y": "200px"
    }
  ]
}
```

In this example, by default all targets matched by the ".target" have delay of 100ms and "--y" of 100px. However, the first target (`index: 0`) is overriden to have delay of 200ms; and odd targets are overriden to have "--y" of 200px.

Notice, that multiple subtargets can match one target element.


### Keyframes

Keyframes can be specified in numerous ways described in the [keyframes section](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#processing-a-keyframes-argument) of the Web Animations spec or as a string refering to the `@keyframes` name in the CSS.

Some typical examples of keyframes definitions are below.

Shorthand object-form "to" format specifies the final state at 100%:
```text
{
  "keyframes": {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(2)"}
}
```

Shorthand object-form "from-to" format specifies the starting and final states at 0 and 100%:
```text
{
  "keyframes": {
    "opacity": [1, 0],
    "transform": ["scale(1)", "scale(2)"]
  }
}
```

Shorthand object-form "value-array" format specifies multiple values for starting, final states and multiple (equal-spaced) offsets:
```text
{
  "keyframes": {
    "opacity": [1, 0.1, 0],
    "transform": ["scale(1)", "scale(1.1)", "scale(2)"]
  }
}
```

The array-form specifies keyframes. Offsets are assigned automatically at 0, 100% and spaced evenly in-between:
```text
{
  "keyframes": [
    {"opacity": 1, "transform": "scale(1)"},
    {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(2)"}
  ]
}
```

The array-form can also include "offset" explicitly:
```text
{
  "keyframes": [
    {"opacity": 1, "transform": "scale(1)"},
    {"offset": 0.1, "opacity": 0.1, "transform": "scale(2)"},
    {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(3)"}
  ]
}
```

The array-form can also include "easing":
```text
{
  "keyframes": [
    {"easing": "ease-out", "opacity": 1, "transform": "scale(1)"},
    {"opacity": 0, "transform": "scale(2)"}
  ]
}
```

For additional keyframes formats refer to [Web Animations spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#processing-a-keyframes-argument).

The property values allow any valid CSS values, including `calc()`, `var()` and other CSS expressions.

#### Keyframes from CSS

Another way to specify keyframes is in the document's stylesheet (`<style>` tag) as `@keyframes` CSS rule. For instance:
```html
<style amp-custom>
  @keyframes keyframes1 {
    from {
      opacity: 0;
    }
    to {
      opacity: 1;
    }
  }
</style>

<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "duration": "1s",
  "keyframes": "keyframes1"
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

CSS `@keyframes` are mostly equivalent to inlining keyframes definition in the JSON per [Web Animations spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/web-animations/#processing-a-keyframes-argument). However, there are some nuances:
 - For broad-platform support, vendor prefixes, e.g. `@-ms-keyframes {}` or `-moz-transform` may be needed. Vendor prefixes are not needed and not allowed in the JSON format, but in CSS they could be necessary.
 - Platforms that do not support `calc()` and `var()` will not be able to take advantage of `amp-animation` polyfills when keyframes are specified in CSS. It's thus recommended to always include fallback values in CSS.
 - CSS extensions such as [`width()`, `height()` and `rand()`](#css-extensions) cannot be used in CSS.


#### Whitelisted properties for keyframes

Not all CSS properties can be used in keyframes. Only CSS properties that modern browsers can optimize and
animate quickly are whitelisted. This list will grow as more properties are confirmed to provide good
performance. Currently the list contains:
 - `opacity`
 - `transform`
 - `visibility`
 - 'offsetDistance'


Notice that the use of vendor prefixed CSS properties is neither needed nor allowed.


### Abbreviated forms of animation configuration

If the animation only involves a single element and a single keyframes effect is sufficient, the configuration
can be reduced to this one animation component only. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "selector": "#target-id",
  "duration": "1s",
  "keyframes": {"opacity": 1}
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

If the animation is comprised of a list of components, but doesn't have top-level animation, the configuration
can be reduced to an array of components. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
[
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": 1000,
    "keyframes": {"opacity": 1}
  },
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": 600,
    "delay": 400,
    "keyframes": {"transform": "scale(2)"}
  }
]
</script>
</amp-animation>
```


### Animation composition

Animations can reference other animations thus combining several `amp-animation` declarations into a single final animation. Referencing an animation from another animation is mostly the same as nesting. The reason why one would want to split animations into different elements would be to reuse the same animation from several places or to simply make each animation declaration smaller and more manageable.

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "animation": "anim2",
  "duration": 1000,
  "--scale": 2
}
</script>
</amp-animation>

<amp-animation id="anim2" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "selector": ".target-class",
  "keyframes": {"transform": "scale(var(--scale))"}
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

This sample animation, will combine "anim2" animation as part of "anim1". The "anim2" is included
without a target (`selector`). In such case, the included animation is expected to reference its own target.

Another form allows the including animation to provide the target or multiple targets. In that case, the included
animation is executed for each matched target. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "selector": ".target-class",
  "animation": "anim2",
  "duration": 1000,
  "--scale": 2
}
</script>
</amp-animation>

<amp-animation id="anim2" layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
{
  "keyframes": {"transform": "scale(var(--scale))"}
}
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

Here, whether the ".target-class" matches one element, several or none - the "anim2" is executed for each matched target.

The variables and timing properties specified in the caller animation are passed to the included animation as well.


### `var()` and `calc()` expressions

`amp-animation` allows use of `var()` and `calc()` expressions for timing and keyframes values.

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
[
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": "4s",
    "delay": "var(--delay)",
    "--y": "var(--other-y, 100px)",
    "keyframes": {"transform": "translate(calc(100vh + 20px), var(--y))"}
  }
]
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

Both `var()` and `calc()` polyfilled on platforms that do not directly support them. `var()` properties are extracted from the corresponding target elements. However, it's unfortunately impossible to fully polyfill `var()`. Thus, where compatibility is important, it's strongly recommended to include default values in the `var()` expressions. For instance:
```html
<amp-animation layout="nodisplay">
<script type="application/json">
[
  {
    "selector": ".target-class",
    "duration": "4s",
    "delay": "var(--delay, 100ms)",
  }
]
</script>
</amp-animation>
```

Animation components can specify their own variables as `--var-name` fields. These variables are propagated into nested animations and override variables of target elements specified via stylesheet (`<style>` tag). `var()` expressions first try to resolve variable values specified in the animations and then by querying target styles.


### CSS extensions

`amp-animation` provides several CSS extensions for typical animations needs: `rand()`, `width()`, and `height()`. These functions can be used everywhere where CSS values can be used within `amp-animation`, including timing and keyframes values.

#### CSS `rand()` extension

The `rand()` function returns a random CSS value. There are two forms.

The form without arguments simply returns the random number between 0 and 1.
```
{
  "animation-delay": "calc(10s * rand())"
}
```

The second form has two arguments and returns the random value between these two arguments.
```
{
  "animation-delay": "rand(5s, 10s)"
}
```

#### CSS `width()` and `height()` extensions

The `width()` and `height()` extensions return the width/height of the animated element or the element specified by the selector. The returned value is in pixels, e.g. `100px`.

The following forms are supported:
 - `width()` and `height()` - width/height of the animated element.
 - `width('.selector')` and `height('.selector')` - width/height of the element specified by the selector. Any CSS selector can be used. For instance, `width('#container > li')`.
 - `width(closest('.selector'))` and `height(closest('.selector'))` - width/height of the element specified by the closest selector.

The `width()` and `height()` are epsecially useful for transforms. The `left`, `top` and similar CSS properties that can use `%` values to express animations proportional to container size. However, `transform` property interpretes `%` values differently - as a percent of the selected element. Thus, the `width()` and `height()` can be used to express transform animations in terms of container elements and similar.

These functions can be combined with `calc()`, `var()` and other CSS expressions. For instance:
```
{
  "transform": "translateX(calc(width('#container') + 10px))"
}
```


## Triggering animation

The animation can be triggered via a `trigger` attribute or an `on` action.

### `trigger` attribute

Currently, `visibility` is the only available value for the `trigger` attribute. The `visibility` triggers when the underlying document or embed are visible (in viewport).

For instance:
```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay"
    trigger="visibility">
  ...
</amp-animation>
```

### Triggering via `on` action

For instance:

```html
<amp-animation id="anim1" layout="nodisplay">
  ...
</amp-animation>
<button on="tap:anim1.start">Animate</button>
```


## `on` actions

`amp-animation` element exports the following actions:

- `start` - Starts the animation is it's not running already. Timing properties and variables
  can be specified as action arguments. E.g. `anim1.start(delay=-100, --scale=2)`.
- `restart` - Starts the animation or restarts the currently running one. Timing properties and variables
  can be specified as action arguments. E.g. `anim1.start(delay=-100, --scale=2)`.
- `pause` - Pauses the currently running animation.
- `resume` - Resumes the currently running animation.
- `togglePause` - Toggles pause/resume actions.
- `seekTo` - Pauses the animation and seeks to the point of time specified by the `time` argument in milliseconds.
- `reverse` - Reverses the animation.
- `finish` - Finishes the animation.
- `cancel` - Cancels the animation.
