contributing/great-first-issues-template.md, before:

<!--
Copy this template into new Great First Issues and edit as needed.
-->
<!--
[Optional] Include this section if you think the issue is perfect for people
who have never contributed to open source projects before.
-->
### First Timers Only
We know figuring out the process for contributing to an open source project can be intimidating, so we created this issue as a way for you to learn the ropes.  (If you feel comfortable contributing to open source projects, please leave this issue for someone else.)

<!--
List knowledge/skills the contributor should already have before working on this bug (for example, knowledge of web components, Node.js internals, etc.).  New contributors can use this section to find bugs that match their existing skills.  This also serves as a filter that can reduce the amount of explanation you will need to do in the "Step by step" section.  Try to be only as restrictive as necessary and call out any nice-to-haves.
-->
### What you will need to know

<!--
[Optional] If there is additional context that will help the contributor fix the bug add it here.  If this is redundant with other sections feel free to remove it.
-->
### Background

<!--
Explain why fixing this bug/feature is important, i.e. why should the contributor care about fixing this?  Whose life will be made better by this fix?
-->
### Motivation

<!--
Detailed steps for reproducing the bug.

If this is a feature, change this to "The feature" and add a detailed description.
-->
### The bug

<!--
Step-by-step instructions for the contributor to follow as they work through the bug.  Feel free to change any step that will make the steps more clear for this issue.  Make sure to replace the comment block below with the exact steps the contributor should follow.
-->
### Step by step
- [ ] Claim this issue by adding a comment below.  Please only claim this bug if you plan on starting work in the next day or so.
- [ ] If you aren't too familiar with Git/GitHub, see the [Getting Started End-to-End Guide](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md) for [an intro to Git & GitHub,](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#intro-to-git-and-github) and [how to get a copy of the code](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#get-a-copy-of-the-amphtml-code).  You can also refer to the [Quick Start Guide](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-quick.md) for the necessary setup steps with less explanation than the End-to-End guide.
- [ ] Follow the instructions for [building AMP](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#building-amp-and-starting-a-local-server).
- [ ] [Create a Git branch](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#create-a-git-branch) for making your changes.
<!--
Add steps that are specific to the issue here, e.g. perhaps they should edit a test, run gulp test to see it fails, change a file and then run gulp test again to see that the new test succeeds?  Adjust the level of detail for the background you indicated the contributor should have.
-->
- [ ] [Commit your changes](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#edit-files-and-commit-them) frequently.
- [ ] [Push your changes to GitHub](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#push-your-changes-to-your-github-fork).
<!--
Ideally suggest a reviewer for the Pull Request; not knowing who to set as the reviewer can be confusing for new contributors.
-->
- [ ] [Create a Pull Request](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#send-a-pull-request-ie-request-a-code-review).  Mention `closes Issue <this issue number>` in the description.
- [ ] [Respond to your reviewer's comments](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#respond-to-pull-request-comments) (if any).

<!--
If this issue is a change that won't go out with a push (e.g. a doc change, a fix to the build, etc.) update the sentence about how to see their change is live.
-->
Once approved, your changes will be merged.  **⚡⚡⚡Congrats on making your first contribution to the AMP Project!⚡⚡⚡**  You'll be able to see it [live across the web soon](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/release-schedule.md)!

Thanks, and we hope to see more contributions from you soon.

### Questions?

<!--
Ideally provide a specific contact to @mention here as well
-->
If you have questions ask in this issue or on your Pull Request (if you've created one) or see the [How to get help](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#how-to-get-help) section of the Getting Started guide.

Commit message:

add CLA info and join link (#10418)

contributing/great-first-issues-template.md, after:

<!--
Copy this template into new Great First Issues and edit as needed.
-->
<!--
[Optional] Include this section if you think the issue is perfect for people
who have never contributed to open source projects before.
-->
### First Timers Only
We know figuring out the process for contributing to an open source project can be intimidating, so we created this issue as a way for you to learn the ropes.  (If you feel comfortable contributing to open source projects, please leave this issue for someone else.)

<!--
List knowledge/skills the contributor should already have before working on this bug (for example, knowledge of web components, Node.js internals, etc.).  New contributors can use this section to find bugs that match their existing skills.  This also serves as a filter that can reduce the amount of explanation you will need to do in the "Step by step" section.  Try to be only as restrictive as necessary and call out any nice-to-haves.
-->
### What you will need to know

<!--
[Optional] If there is additional context that will help the contributor fix the bug add it here.  If this is redundant with other sections feel free to remove it.
-->
### Background

<!--
Explain why fixing this bug/feature is important, i.e. why should the contributor care about fixing this?  Whose life will be made better by this fix?
-->
### Motivation

<!--
Detailed steps for reproducing the bug.

If this is a feature, change this to "The feature" and add a detailed description.
-->
### The bug

<!--
Step-by-step instructions for the contributor to follow as they work through the bug.  Feel free to change any step that will make the steps more clear for this issue.  Make sure to replace the comment block below with the exact steps the contributor should follow.
-->
### Step by step
- [ ] Claim this issue by adding a comment below.  Please only claim this bug if you plan on starting work in the next day or so.  (If you [join the AMP Project](https://goo.gl/forms/T65peVtfQfEoDWeD3) we'll be able to assign this issue to you after you've claimed it.)
- [ ] If you aren't too familiar with Git/GitHub, see the [Getting Started End-to-End Guide](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md) for [an intro to Git & GitHub,](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#intro-to-git-and-github) and [how to get a copy of the code](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#get-a-copy-of-the-amphtml-code).  You can also refer to the [Quick Start Guide](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-quick.md) for the necessary setup steps with less explanation than the End-to-End guide.
- [ ] Follow the instructions for [building AMP](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#building-amp-and-starting-a-local-server).
- [ ] [Create a Git branch](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#create-a-git-branch) for making your changes.
- [ ] [Sign the Contributor License Agreement](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributor-license-agreement) before creating a Pull Request.  (If you are contributing code on behalf of a corporation start this process as early as possible.)
<!--
Add steps that are specific to the issue here, e.g. perhaps they should edit a test, run gulp test to see it fails, change a file and then run gulp test again to see that the new test succeeds?  Adjust the level of detail for the background you indicated the contributor should have.
-->
- [ ] [Commit your changes](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#edit-files-and-commit-them) frequently.
- [ ] [Push your changes to GitHub](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#push-your-changes-to-your-github-fork).
<!--
Ideally suggest a reviewer for the Pull Request; not knowing who to set as the reviewer can be confusing for new contributors.
-->
- [ ] [Create a Pull Request](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#send-a-pull-request-ie-request-a-code-review).  Mention `closes Issue <this issue number>` in the description.
- [ ] [Respond to your reviewer's comments](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#respond-to-pull-request-comments) (if any).

<!--
If this issue is a change that won't go out with a push (e.g. a doc change, a fix to the build, etc.) update the sentence about how to see their change is live.
-->
Once approved, your changes will be merged.  **⚡⚡⚡Congrats on making your first contribution to the AMP Project!⚡⚡⚡**  You'll be able to see it [live across the web soon](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/release-schedule.md)!

Thanks, and we hope to see more contributions from you soon.

### Questions?

<!--
Ideally provide a specific contact to @mention here as well
-->
If you have questions ask in this issue or on your Pull Request (if you've created one) or see the [How to get help](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/contributing/getting-started-e2e.md#how-to-get-help) section of the Getting Started guide.
